---
% title: Climate Research Initiative Meeting
% date: 2020-02-20
% time: 15:30
% location: 113 Land and Water Research Building and https://psu.zoom.us/j/700915688
% author: Rob Nicholas <ren10@psu.edu>
---

present:
- Rachel Brennan
- Jim Dillard
- Karen Fisher-Vanden
- Chris Forest
- Klaus Keller
- Bruce Logan
- Rob Nicholas
- Tom Richard
- Paul Shrivastava
- Erica Smithwick

## Questions

0. What have been the historic barriers to Penn State having a coherent / coordinated program of "climate research"? (It appears that this has been a problem for at least 20 years.)

1. What is the intended scope of research under the initiative?
   - climate science research (i.e. research about the climate system)?
   - climate impacts?
   - climate change adaptation and risk/decision analysis?
   - carbon mitigation technology?
   - climate change adaptation technology?
   - climate policy / advocacy / communication?
   - anything and everything that can somehow be connected to climate?
   
2. What's the funding source? How does this relate to / impact existing funding streams related to climate research?

3. What are the mechanisms for interdisciplinary cohort building? What forms the connective tissue?

4. How will the initiative be governed? What's the balance between autonomy and coherent strategic direction? How does this relate to existing climate centers/initiatives?

5. How do we reconcile this initiative with Penn State's ongoing entanglement with the fossil fuel economy?


## What's this about?

Planning meeting for bigger event. Lots going on in "climate space" but not coordinated much.

- What is the structure?
- What are anticipated outcomes?
- How much of a time commitment?
- Who will be invited/involved?
- What are the strengths?
- What's missing (gap analysis)?



### Potential Goals
- greater coordination within
- more cohesive visibility without
- immediate needs

Paul: Singular focus should be on climate action, carbon neutral/negative -- redirect Penn States's faculty, staff, and $6.5B budget toward this goal

Tom suggests "Climate Discovery Day" -- sharing what we have with potential stakeholders


Title of Outreach Strategic Plan "Resilient Pennsylvania"

## My notes for Sue Brantley:

Climate Research Initiative meeting
Nicholas, Robert
Thu 2/20/2020 7:38 PM
Hi Sue,

I ended up not having much in the way of notes from this afternoon's meeting
but can fill you in briefly on the gist of what happened....

The attendees were as follows: Rachel Brennan, Jim Dillard, Karen
Fisher-Vanden, Chris Forest, Klaus Keller, Bruce Logan, Rob Nicholas, Tom
Richard, Paul Shrivastava, and Erica Smithwick.  Although I was under the
impression that Erica was organizing this meeting, Tom actually ran the
whole thing.

The basic gist of what Tom wanted the group to do was help plan for a much
larger, campus-wide gathering of everyone interested in or involved with
research that relates to climate in some way, to be convened sometime later
this spring.

The first ~20 minutes were devoted to introductions and statements of
interest/priorities.  Priorities included focusing all of Penn State's
efforts toward achieving negative carbon emissions (as an institution),
presenting a more coherent picture of Penn State's climate-related strengths
and activities to the outside world, graduate education and workforce
development that focused on needs related to climate change, prioritizing
industry partnerships to help bring "climate solutions" into reality,
enabling better coordinating between climate-related research activities
across campus, and better supporting stakeholder-engaged climate-related
research.  The development of a climate consortium and a website that brings
together all climate-related activities were discussed as specific
instruments.

The remainder of the hour was devoted to discussion of how the big
campus-wide meeting might be structured.  What wasn't really discussed was
whether such a meeting was a good idea -- Tom seemed to have already decided
that this was a settled goal.  He was particularly concerned about the
possibility that individuals or groups might feel excluded, and thus was
wary of defining the scope or projected outcomes of the planned meeting to
strictly.

In the end, the structure that was settled upon was series of breakout
sessions focused around "grand challenges" related to climate change rather
than the more traditional categories of climate science, impacts,
adaptation, etc.  in hopes of encouraging more interdisciplinary
cross-fertilization at the meeting.  The breakout groups would then report
back to the full group over the course of an hour or so.  The list of grand
challenges was still pretty fluid when the meeting ended and it was decided
that Tom would distribute an initial draft of the meeting plan via Google
Docs for further editing, refinement, and discussion; I assume this will be
shared with you.  Tom thought a likely date for the big meeting was sometime
in April, although there were concerns expressed that this was perhaps too
soon for something of this scale given how busy many people are.

After the meeting ended, several small groups ended up lingering around to
chat informally, and my gut sense (based on a bit of cross-talk between
these groups) was that there was some level of dissatisfaction/unease about
the meeting itself and the plan going forward.  It's not clear to me how
this will figure into what happens next.

Let me know if you have any questions, or we can discuss in person next time
we meet.

Cheers,
Rob
