---
% title: MSD Leadership Call
% date: 2020-02-18
% time: 14:00
% location: https://zoom.us/j/520113778
% author: Robert Nicholas <ren10@psu.edu>
---

## Project (CRA/SFA) Updates

### IM3 Update (Jenni Rice)
- new website: im3.pnnl.gov; took ~3 months; handled by NREL web team
- Bob: wants more pictoral elements; open source highlight and publication photos

### PCHES (Karen Fisher-Vanden)
- May project meeting coming up
- confirmed attendance/participation with group

### IHESD (Mohamad Hejazi)
- new name: GCIMS (Global Change Intersectoral Modeling System)
- was planning to go with "CHESS" but it was thought to be too similar to
  PCHES
- current webisite: ihesd.umd.edu; will be moved to new domain

### ICoM (Ian Kraucunas)
- April project meeting coming up

## MSD Community of Practice (Pat Reed, co-lead of facilitation team)
- review debriefings with working group proposal teams who were not selected
- selected working groups going through onboarding process
- another round of proposals in June
- science steering group meeting scheduled for Friday

## Snowmass Update (John Weyant)
- "Old Thyme" Snowmass, three topics (roughly one day each)
  - data science -- e.g. Eric Corvitz
  - agent-based modeling -- e.g. Brian Arthur
  - urban -- e.g. Karen Seto
- brief 15-20 minute updates from MSD teams (roughly half-day total)
- update from MSD coordination/steering team
- request from the MSD teams for ideas for individuals to present on three
  big topics
- Bob suggests inviting Paul Ulrich (UC Davis), lead for HyperFACETS;
  half-dozen use cases
- Bob also suggests Stephanie Waldhoff and Joel Roland (?) from INTERFACE
  (new arctic SFA)
- Pat: There's lots of urban work going on, but not much of it is MSD;
  classification is not the same as analysis of integration across
  sectors

## Highlights
- Bob would like to solict ideas for streamlining this process
- he will reach out to teams individually

!! I should probably take charge of the highlights process (with Katerina's help)